---
title: "Telemetry"
date: 2021-02-03T21:38:07-08:00
draft: false
author: "Hugo Belin"
type: page
featured_image: '/images/content/site/chart.jpg'
categories: [site]
tags: [site]
description: Telemetry data, usage stats
lang: en
---
{{< big I >}}n order to measure our criteria of success with our website (that is to provide a delightful experience to our users) we need to know and understand how it is being used. 
We plan to achieve this through the use of telemetry data, this data will provide us insights regarding any usability issues, what type of content users enjoy the most, and other types 
of issues

{{< big T >}}he use of telemetry is a common and accepted practice for most websites, nowadays users aren't even informed about this, let alone letting them know about the usage given 
to this data (i.e. analyzed and sold for advertising purposes, used to track and profile individuals and their behaviors). We're taking few additional steps to ensure 
{{< link "/" "BrewingCats.com" >}} and our derived sites remain trustworthy

{{< big A >}}s mentioned in our {{< link "/posts/site/policy/" "Policy" >}} we want to be an example of how we envision websites to behave when collecting and dealing with data generated by 
users. To acomplish that,  we're taking the following actions:

{{< big 1 >}} We built a custom made telemetry collection and storage pipeline engine. We did not want to rely on third party telemetry providers so they don't have the temptation of using 
customer information for other purposes. As extra bonus we learned how to do it and had fun with it :smiley:

{{< big 2 >}} We're making data collected accessible to everyone. The data is collected by our users and for our users. Everyone have the right of knowing what happen with the data they 
generate. To that end we're making available the last month worth of telemetry data in the Tableau viz embedded below

{{< big 3>}} Users should be able to know what data have they generated by using our websites. To that end our telemetry vizzes have the ability of filtering by `ClientId`. You can easily see 
your client ID below, this value can be entered in the filters of the viz in order to know what data was generated by your usage

{{< big 4 >}} You, the user have the right of not sharing your usage data with us, this applies to our related sites as well. We understand and promote the right to full privacy even with all 
of the transparency announced in this post, if a user desires not to share any information with us we support them and give them the freedom to do it easily. You can use the controls provided 
below to disable telemetry generation

{{< head 3 "Last Month Telemetry Data" >}}
{{< telemetrybrs >}}
Your Client ID: {{< clientid >}}

{{< tableautelemetry >}}

{{< break >}}
{{< unsplash "6EnTPvPPL6I" "isaacmsmith" "Unsplash: Charting Goals" >}}

{{< pageStats >}}
